>> This is "Secret
Life of Symbols."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> If we go back to Genesis
1, the very first chapter
in the Bible, Genesis 1, so
many people today believe,
and have been told--
and that's why they believe it--
that God made us, God made man.
And they will point
to the scripture that
says God created Adam
and Eve, and then
they will say, see, there
it is, God made man.
But that's not what
the Bible says.
It doesn't say
that God made man.
In the beginning, the
first chapter of Genesis
says, in the
beginning, God created
the heavens and the earth.
But that's not exactly
what it says in the Hebrew.
This is why we are emphasizing
that it says God created
the heavens and the earth.
But in Hebrew, the
word God is "El," E-L.
So if we were to read this
first chapter, the first verse,
in Hebrew, it would
say, in the beginning,
El created the
heavens and the earth.
But that's not what
it says in Hebrew.
It says, in the
beginning, Elohim
created the heavens
and the earth, not El.
In the beginning of the heavens
and the earth which are now.
I came across this
many, many years ago,
talking with a very
impressive, well-known rabbi.
He was the one that
put me onto this
when I was very young,
that God did not create--
he said God did not create man.
There's nowhere in
the Old Testament,
or what you call
where it says God created man.
It just doesn't say that.
And so I began to look at this,
and he gave me all the ideas
a long time ago.
So the first thing we need
to look at is, as I said,
the word is incorrect.
God is El in Hebrew,
but it's Elohim.
And Elohim means the gods in
the plural, more than one god.
So the correct
understanding of Genesis 1:1
is that, in the beginning,
the gods created
the heavens and the earth.
We need to define our
terms first about God.
What does the word God mean
in the Old Testament Hebrew?
Here it is for you.
This is God in the
Hebrew is Elohim.
Gods, more than one.
So in Genesis 1:1, it
says, in the beginning,
Elohim created the
heavens and the earth.
So it's more than one god.
But here's the important part.
We'll see it again.
This is from another
Bible translation,
where the word God
shows up, and then it
says, in Hebrew, it's Elohim,
which is plural, more than one.
So God, Elohim, is plural.
The word Elohim, on the
top it says the word Elohim
is a plural word.
In Hebrew, the plural form of
the noun ends in M-I-M-O-T.
Elohim is a plural form.
On the bottom, it says
it is interesting to note
that, even though
Elohim is plural,
the Hebrew dictionary
still translates
it God, instead of gods.
This is what has confused
people around the world,
because the actual word
in the Bible is gods.
And this is why you will see
a lot of the reference works,
they will make the
distinction and show you
this, the plural form of El.
Now, when you go to the actual
scriptures in a Hebrew Bible,
in the Jewish Bible,
it says Elohim, we,
shall make man in our image
and after our likeness.
But it actually says in
Hebrew, Elohim said we,
W-E, meaning more than
one, we will make man.
Remember the Moses with
the 10 Commandments,
where Moses receives the law of
the 10 Commandments from God.
And what is the
First Commandment?
The First Commandment says,
I am the Lord your God,
who have brought you out
of the land of Egypt,
and out of the house of
bondage, and you shall
have no other gods before me.
He didn't say there
are no other gods,
he just said you will have
no other gods before me.
The emphasis, I was told
many years ago, was--
rabbi pointed out is that God
is saying to the Hebrew people
with the 10 Commandments,
I am the Lord your God.
You pick me.
So there was a group, what I'm
saying is that picture, say, 12
or 14 different
gods, and each one is
equal to every other one.
But if you pick one, and you
make a deal with that one god,
then you have a
relationship with that god.
And so this is why God says that
Hebrew, I am the Lord your God,
and I shall not have any
other gods before me.
So basically, it's like a
young man telling his fiancee,
you know, there are many other
young men out there like me,
but I'm supposed to-- you know,
I'm going steady with you,
so I don't want to have any
other young men in my place.
So God was a jealous god.
But it's understandable, if
there were many other gods.
So, thou shall have no
other gods before me.
He didn't say there weren't any.
Now, if you read from
Exodus 20 verse three,
this just is just
some of the ways
that it is expressed in
different translations.
Thou shall have no
other gods before me,
yes, have no other gods.
Then in the Hebrew,
the third one down
is from the Hebrew
Bible, and it says,
thou shall have no
Elohims in my presence.
So the ancient Hebrews
realized that the word was
mentioning more than one god.
But it's the
Christianity today that
has caused that Elohim
to be brought down
to a singular term.
And there's a lot of talk
about this now starting
to come out that there's a
lot of question about what
does Elohim mean.
Well, it just means
more than one deity.
Judaism is said to be a first
monotheistic religion, mono
meaning one, theistic
meaning the study of God.
But in point of fact, Judaism
is not a monotheistic religion.
The correct term is heno,
H-E-N-O, henotheology.
Henotheology means picking
one god out of a group.
And so as I said, if you pick
one god out of the group,
then he is your god,
and you are his people.
It doesn't mean that that's the
only god in the whole universe,
no, it's just your god.
Deuteronomy 11:16 says,
but be careful not
to let yourselves be
seduced, so that you
turn aside serving other
gods and worshipping them.
So the Jewish God,
the God of the Jews,
was telling them, yes,
there are other gods,
but don't be worshipping him.
First, you need to
know that the people we
call the ancient Hebrews
were not Hebrews as such.
They were, in fact,
Phoenician or Canaanites.
And this is where you can
trace back in the encyclopedias
and in the dictionaries
about ancient Canaan
and the ancient
area we call today
Israel and Lebanon,
that whole area.
They were called Canaanites.
Here, we have another article.
This one was from
a Jewish magazine,
and it talks about it is the
faith of the people of Judah,
and it's the developed faith
of the Semitic people known
as Hebrews or Israelites.
It is recognized as the
first religious tradition
noted for its monotheism.
Then it goes on to say,
the Hebrew tradition
did not begin as monotheism.
So then we find out that all
the people of the Middle East
were anything but monotheistic.
The so-called Hebrews
were, in that time,
henotheistic, meaning
picking one god out of many.
Here at Liberty University, they
had articles about henotheism,
toward the assessment of a
divine plurality in the Hebrew
Bible.
I'm hoping to show you that
this is understood in many Bible
reference works,
the word henotheism,
and what it actually means.
The God of Israel,
an ancient people's
growing understanding from
henotheism to monotheism.
We see this happening
with the human race
for thousands of years.
Things change.
One religion begins, has
a particular understanding
of God, and give it 1,000
years and that changes,
and add another 1,000
years, and it changes again,
until today we have a whole
new understanding that there
was only one God
in the universe,
and he created man, which in
point of fact is not true.
The one article in the middle
that was read, it says,
we have previously established
that the mighty ones are
the sons of God, the
assembly of messengers,
and that Yahweh was a
part of these messengers.
So this is another thought
being expressed that Yahweh
was one of the many gods.
So again, it's important when
you see here in the scriptures,
in the Hebrew it says Elohim
said "we shall make man
in our image."
Now, it's interesting, too, is
that when Elohim, or the gods,
said come let us make man in
our image, after our likeness,
as I was told many
years ago, this
was a misunderstanding
of the sentence.
You should not read
it that God said
"come, let us make man in our
image, after our likeness,"
and then that would
prove that God made man.
No.
The correct way to understand
it is that the gods says
"come, let us make man in our
image, after our likeness."
Not make man, but let's
make him in our image,
after our likeness.
Well, that of course
implies that we have been
tampered with, with our DNA.
This is maybe a long time
ago, but nonetheless, we've
been tampered with,
and we still are today.
Even as humans, we're still
tampering with our own DNA.
If you go to the encyclopedias
and reference works,
you will see a lot of
articles on Hebrew henotheism.
I'm saying this is because
it is a well-established fact
that the ancient Hebrews were
not a monotheistic religion.
This is in the
book of Psalms 82,
where it says God standeth in
the congregation of the mighty,
and he judgeth among the gods.
Well, we see God in
the Hebrew tradition
is one of the many
gods, and he is standing
among all the other gods.
Let's see how other
Bible versions say it.
God takes his stand
in the divine counsel,
or Elohim God stand in
the divine assembly,
where there are other Elohims.
God has taken his place
in the divine counsel
and in the midst of the gods.
So the point is that there
is more than one god,
and that the Hebrew god
was just one of them.
That's in the Old Testament,
but even the apostle Paul
in the New Testament says
basically the same thing.
In 1 Corinthians in
the New Testament,
the apostle Paul says,
"for though there
may be called gods, whether in
heaven or on earth, as there
be gods many and lords many."
Then in 1 Corinthians
8:5, it says,
"for although there
may be so-called gods,
whether in heaven or on earth,
as indeed there are many gods."
And there are many of them.
So let's go on and
move on from there.
We're going back
to Genesis 1:26.
And this is where we
see the scripture talks
about when God is creating
man, or recreating man.
And so it says, "God said,
let us make man in our image,
after our likeness."
And so there's a big
difference between God
making man or remaking him
in their image and likeness.
And what does that mean?
Let's see how other
Bibles put it.
The Good News Bible says,
"then God said, and now we
shall make human beings,
and they will be like us,
and they will resemble us."
Here in the New Living
Translation of the Bible,
it says, "then God said, let us
make human beings in our image,
to be like us."
Common English Bible
says, "then God
said, let us make humanity
in our image to resemble us."
This is a far
better understanding
of the scripture to start with.
Here's the Complete
Jewish Bible that
says, "then God said, let us
make humankind in our image,
in the likeness of ourselves."
So it begins to open up a whole
new understanding about why
we appear on Earth as we do.
It begins to look like
that we are looking today
like our creator.
The creators who created
us messed with our DNA,
and caused us to begin more
and more to look like them.
So that opens up a whole
new can of worms also,
to show that there's
more than one god.
And so we look like the
gods that created us.
The reason I am showing
so many scriptures,
I want you to understand all
Bibles are saying basically
the same thing, that we
look like the creators that
created us, the Elohim.
More than one.
And in Genesis 3:22, it
said "the Lord God said,
behold man has
become one of us."
Now he's become like us.
He looks like us,
he's acting like us,
and he's very destructive
like us, having wars like us.
So the Holy Bible
basically says, now,
let us make man like us.
God did not make
man, as you will see.
The word in Hebrew
for man is "Ish."
I-S-H in Hebrew is man.
But the Bible says God
made Adm, A-D-M, not Ish.
But if you go back to the
Hebrew Bible and read it,
it says, in this Hebrew
Bible, preface, it says,
"according to this, the
Hebrew word for woman
is Ishah, comes from the
Hebrew word for man, Ish."
Here's another
reference word that
said interesting the words
from man and woman in Hebrew
is identical.
Man and Hebrew is
pronounced ish.
And looks like this.
But the Bible does not
say god created ish.
It says god created adm.
And this is important, too.
It doesn't say that
God created Adam.
The letter was adm. We
humans added to be Adam.
But it's not Adam.
It's adm. Here we have the
Hebrew translation, going back
to Hebrew, it says we
shall make adm, A-D-M,
which means a different
kind of creature.
Adm, A-D-M, not Adam.
And we will make him in
the image of us, adm.
Like so many other humans
do, even A-D-M, adm,
made human or male offspring.
Look how the Bible describes
it in chapter five of Genesis,
it says, "and Adam
lived 130 years,
and begat a son in his own
likeness, after his image,
and called his son Seth."
Adam lived 130 years, and
begat a son in his own image
and likeness.
So we are seeing that
that man is now doing
what the gods did also for us.
They created us
to look like them.
And we now have the ability
to create other offspring.
And we have a son
who looks like us.
There are many
examples in the Bible
that show that the
gods look like us.
No, we look like them.
They look what they
look like to start with.
But we were made
to look like them.
As an example, a
classic example is
found in the story
of Abraham's meeting.
Three visitors that
came to visit him.
This is in Genesis 18 and 19.
We're told that Abraham and
Sarah were in their tent,
and that three men come walking
up to the tent, three visitors.
And when Abraham
saw the three men,
he went out and
bowed down to them
and said, what does my
Lord say to his servant?
So we're told that Abraham
knew this was the Lord, God.
But he looked like another man.
Well, that's what
the scripture says.
God said, we will make men to
look like us, in our image.
In chapter 18 in
Genesis, it said,
"the Lord appeared
unto him," this
was Abraham," in
the plains of Mamre.
And he sat in the tent door
in the heat of the day.
And when Abraham lifted
up his eyes and looked,
lo, there were three
men stood by him.
And when he saw them,
he ran out to meet them
at the from temple door and
bowed himself to the ground
before these three men."
And here he is bowing
before the three men
that Abraham obviously knew
was God coming with two
of his assistant angels.
And so it says that the
Lord appeared to Abraham.
And then in Genesis
18:2, it says,
"And he lifted up
his eyes and looked
and the three men were there."
And so we're told
that Abraham then
asked the three men to
stay for something to eat,
to have lunch with him,
and then they could go on.
And the Lord said, no,
they were on their way
to take care of some business,
and they didn't have time.
And the scripture
says that Abraham
went out and insisted that
they stay for just a short time
to have lunch.
And God then said to
Abraham, all right then.
Do that.
But make it quick,
because we're in a hurry.
And so the scripture
goes on to say
that Abraham's wife Sarah fixed
a lunch for the three men.
And now we are told that
Abraham went out and sat
under the tree with the
three men as they had lunch.
Now, after eating,
two of the three men
got up to be on their way while
the third man stayed a bit
longer to talk with Abraham.
So now we've got a guy
sitting under the tree talking
with Abraham, had
just had lunch.
And the men rose up from
thence and looked toward Sodom.
And Abraham went with them
to bring them on their way.
So we're told that the men that
left, they were on their way
to somewhere.
So Abraham quickly
got up and escorted
them a short
distance on their way
while they were all
on their way to Sodom.
And it says, in Genesis
19, the next chapter--
the two men that were
having lunch with Abraham,
and then they got up and
walked towards Sodom,
that's in chapter 18.
But in chapter 19,
it goes on to say,
"And there came two angels
to Sodom at evening time.
And Lot sat at
the gate of Sodom.
And Lot seeing these two
angels rose up to meet them.
And he bowed himself with
his face to the ground.
And he said, behold now, my
lords, turn in, I pray you,
to come and be in my home
if you're going to be here."
And the men said--
again, we're interchanging
angels and men--
and so the men said to Lot,
no, we won't stay at your home.
We will still stay in the city.
We'll be all right.
But it keeps interchanging
men with angels.
So the point in this, according
to the Bible, the word for God
is Elohim and means the
gods, plural, more than one.
And they make us to look in
their image and their likeness.
We look like them.
So that's why your male
offspring looks human like you.
So here's Abraham meeting
the three men with Sarah,
offering them to stay for lunch.
Then we see this portrayed
in many paintings
in the Bible of the
three men, which
are actually three angels.
It implies also that the
third man was actually
the Almighty God, because
it's capitalized in the Bible.
So this is the Almighty God
who looks like a man and stays
and has lunch with Abraham.
So this is why the
Christian New Testament
has the apostle Paul
saying, in the Bible,
"Be not forgetful to
entertain strangers,
for thereby some have
entertained angels
unaware," meaning that
if you see another man,
be careful, because it might
not be, in fact, another man.
It may be an angel
who you look like.
But he looks like what he
looks like to start with.
And you were made in his image.
You were made to look like him.
So just be careful when you're
talking to other people.
Show respect, because you never
know who you're talking to.
Here, again, in the book
of Hebrews chapter two,
this is apostle Paul again.
And it says, "Remember
to welcome strangers
in your homes.
There were some who did
that and welcomed angels
without knowing it."
Very interesting.
That was beginning to see
God didn't make a man.
God remade man.
He began to change--
and this is why the
scripture says it that way.
Come, let us make man in our
image, after our likeness.
So today, what I'm
saying, is that we look
like the gods who created us.
And so this is why Abraham had
to go out and feed the three
men.
And then you find out,
no, those are the angels
that went into Sodom.
All of this is actually very
important in understanding
theology and religion from
the Bible's standpoint.
This is something that
most people have never
heard before, that we looked
like the gods who created
us-- gods, more than one.
So when we go back to Genesis
1:1, "In the beginning,
God created the heavens."
No, it wasn't God.
It was plural--
Elohim.
And Elohim, plural, gods,
we give the term honotheist,
meaning more than one god.
And it is also
interesting to understand
that in Islam and the
Quran, everywhere god is
talking to man, it's we.
You look it up in the Quran,
you will see everywhere
that God is talking
to his people.
He keeps saying we.
We will do this.
We are going to do that.
We had you do this.
We created you.
And it actually says that in
the Quran-- we created you.
So indeed, there are
many different gods.
God is gods.
And the gods made adm, not
ish, which means they say ish,
and then they took ish
and remade him into adm.
And we call it Adam.
No, the gods came here,
they saw this man,
and therefore, the
man must have been
like a Neanderthal man or some
ancient creature, hominid.
And the gods said, let
us make him look like us.
Let us make him in our image.
So that's what I'm saying.
God did not create man,
because man is ish.
It doesn't say he made ish.
Ish was already here.
So the three visitors to
Abraham were three men.
But Abraham realized they were
gods, they were the creators.
And the gods were always
pictured as either men
with angel wings or not.
After the flood of Noah's
day, chapter nine says,
"And God bless Noah and his
sons and said unto them,
be fruitful, multiply,
and replenish the earth."
When I talked to the
rabbi many years ago,
I said, is this a
correct translation
that says be fruitful, multiply,
and replenish the earth?
Re means to do it again.
And he said, well, obviously,
if there were people here
on the earth, and God
decided to destroy
that civilization of that
time, and now there's
nobody on the earth except Noah
and his sons and the wives,
if you're going to have
people on the earth,
you're going to have to
replenish the earth, obviously.
So therefore,
replenish is correct.
Yes?
Yes.
The reason why I'm asking that
is because re means do again.
Well, if you go back to--
he was, again, in the
Bible and the Jewish Bible.
It talks about Elohim.
And Elohim said replenish.
This is important.
Because if you go
to Genesis one,
where God is creating adm
and his wife, it says--
this is in Genesis 1:27 and 28--
and it says, "God created
man in his own image,
after the image
of God created he,
male and female created them.
And God blessed them.
And God said unto them,
be fruitful, multiply,
and replenish the earth."
So we're not to understand
that God created man
as the very first creature.
No, when these gods
created us, they
said to replenish
the earth, implying
that some terrible catastrophe
had happened on the earth
and that so much
of life was lost.
So now, the gods who
created us say, go out now
and redo it again.
So how many people in the world
have thought about Adam and Eve
not being the first
creatures on the earth.
There have been civilizations
here for millions of years.
Genesis 1:2 says, "And the Earth
was without form and void."
That is an incorrect
translation.
Doesn't say that.
Here it is again.
Genesis 1:2, "And the Earth
was without form and void."
The English words in Genesis
1:2, "without form and void,"
is mistranslation of
the original Hebrew
words tohu vavohu.
The word tohu vavohu means
not without form and void.
If you go back to the original
Hebrew, "In the beginning,
God created the
heavens and the earth."
And then in Genesis 1:2
says, "And the earth
became a waste
and a desolation."
The earth became a
waste and a desolation.
It wasn't created
without form and void.
Obviously if God's going
to create something,
it has got to have a form.
And it's not going to be void,
whatever that's supposed to me.
So therefore, the
correct understanding
of Genesis 1:2, the earth
became a waste and a desolation.
What are you talking about
the earth became a waste
and desolation?
We find that in
the Bible, again,
it keeps telling us all of these
translations, keeps telling us
that it actually became.
It wasn't without form and void.
It was formed the
way god formed it.
But it became a waste
in the desolation.
And here's another
translation of the scriptures,
where it actually says
the earth became a waste.
Now, when you understand that
the earth became a waste, not
without form, you can go back to
the reference works in the King
James Bible.
And it will explain to you
that the words are tohu vavohu.
And it gives you all the
understanding right there
in the Bible itself.
But most people don't even look
at the reference works on this.
The Hebrew words tohu vavohu is
only found twice in the Bible.
The second place in the Old
Testament book of Jeremiah,
in Jeremiah 1:23, where
it says, "I beheld--"
now, Jeremiah is
talking about-- and this
is in the Old Testament.
And Jeremiah says, "I beheld--"
first of all, Jeremiah
is saying that he
was on his bed,
and that God gave him a vision.
The Lord gave Jeremiah a vision
of the old ancient world.
And he said, "I
beheld the earth,
and, lo, it was
without form and void."
No, it's, "I beheld the
earth, and it became
a waste and a desolation."
"And the heavens, and
they had no light.
I behold the mountains,
and, lo, they trembled,
and all the hills moved lightly.
I beheld, and there was
no man, and all the birds
of the heavens were fled.
And I'd beheld, and,
lo, the fruitful place
was a wilderness, and
all the cities thereof
were broken down in the
presence of the Lord
and in his fierce anger.
For thus hath the Lord said, the
whole land shall be desolate,
and yet, will I
make it a full end."
So here, we're seeing
that God's showing
Jeremiah the Earth in
its earliest beginnings
when it was a beautiful--
it says all the cities,
they were broken up.
But it says also in
25, there was no man.
So now you have to
wonder, well, who
was building all the beautiful
cities if there was no man?
So it implies that something
else was going on this Earth
a long time ago that
we have no idea about.
But there was a
massive destruction
that happened to this planet
maybe tens of thousands
of years ago, if not, maybe
millions of years ago.
And Adam and Eve were told to go
forth and do it again, start it
all over again.
So when you begin to see how
these words are put together,
we begin to see that
God did not make man.
God came here and saw
what the Hebrews call
ish, which was the ancient
man, these ancient hominid
creatures.
And they said, come, let us make
these creatures to look like us
and be like us.
Now we begin to see
the actual truth,
is that God did not make man.
He remade the creatures
that were here
that we call hominids.
And that's what
we have come from.
We looked like the
gods that created us.
I'm Jordan Maxwell.
And thank you for watching.